my name is Douglas Kellner I'm the
George F Miller chair in the philosophy
of education at UCLA I've been there the
last three years in 1973 I was hired at
the University of Texas in Austin and I
taught in the philosophy department
there for 20-some years I've also taught
in Taiwan and Finland and Sweden I've
been in schools of communication
sociology philosophy education so I
consider myself kind discipline well if
you look at the notion of the hidden
curriculum and schooling you'll see that
the hidden curriculum is the status quo
that all societies use education to
reproduce the dominant social order this
is true throughout history our society
is a capitalist society so schooling
education the hidden curriculum
reproduces a capitalist social system to
start off let's consider the space and
the structure of schooling what happens
you go from the public or the private
space or the home into the public space
of the school you enter a schoolyard you
here school bell ring and you go into
the class well this is just like Factory
in the workplace where you leave home
and you go to work every day at a
certain time you have to be in the
office so schooling structures
individuals to accept the space the
discipline the structure of work from
the time that the bell rings you go into
homeroom you sit there for an hour so
the bell rings again you go out in the
hall you then go to your first class
then the second class and if you think
of the workday this structure the same
way you go to work you check in and then
you used to literally punch in
I work in factories during the old days
where the day is structured just like
the school day
all right then when you sit in the
classroom you look at the social
relations of the class
it's between teacher and student that's
the same social relations as boss and
worker where the teacher has the
authority you're the student you submit
to Authority so that's part of what
schooling is about is to accept the
structure and the discipline of the
social relations of authority and to get
people to submit to workplace relations
consider also things like grading exams
etc is to create a hierarchical social
order to get people to submit to
competition to success so just like
schooling you have grades you have SAT
classes or SAT exams you have grade
point averages that's to get you to to
submit to condition for the structure of
the work world where you will compete
for money for honors for rewards so you
learn competition and success in the
school place as well so you see that
this hidden curricula having to do with
the structure and the space of schooling
how to do with the social relationships
and authority relationships as well as
the content of exams and competition is
preparing you for work in the broader
social order in fact in the 1950s I went
to high school in Long Island and we had
a tracking system there where you take
an exam as you go into high school and
depending how you score you either went
into the Honors Program or the college
program or the more sort of clerical
workers program or the shop and home X
program this is replicating the class
structure so you're getting prepared
already in high school for your place in
the class structure if you're a member
of the privileged class and you score
well on the exams you're getting ready
for an elite place in society you'll go
to college you see yourself as part of
the privileged elite so class relations
are replicated in the structure of
schooling as well as a gender
and race and this was all part of the
hidden curriculum males are the dominant
authority figures whites of the dominant
race Ivan said this I have to say that
in the last several decades there's been
social Condon conversation there's been
a contesting of the dominant social
order which has to do with gender race
and class hierarchies so on one hand
schools reproduce these hierarchies on
the other hand they can test them there
are teachers there are students who are
contesting the dominant social order so
a lot of women for instance in schools
have been influenced by the feminist
movement or because of the feminist
movement a certain amount of women have
been able to attain positions of
authority so that these women sometimes
just replicate the dominant conservative
social order and our representatives
like say Margaret Thatcher or
conservative corporate business women
are conservative school teachers they
replicate the same Authority
relationship the same power
relationships that you had earlier in a
more conservative society that kept
women out and likewise with people of
color sometimes they're just
representatives of the dominant social
order are as authoritarian as
conservative as the previous white power
structure they're not always you have
some women who are themselves contesting
the dominant social order and are
creating alternative structures of
education pedagogy Jews etc in fact the
final point I want to say about the
hidden curricula has to do with the
structure of the curricula itself things
like economics political science history
the disciplines some of them simply
replicate the status quo they present a
conservative view of educate the economy
of the political system of the social
system of American history but not
always some teachers
textbook some people that construct
curricula they have a more liberal or
more multicultural or more alternative
curriculum so that they are presenting
different views of the economy of the
social system their contesting it they
maybe have more democratic more
multicultural views than the previous
conservative people doing curricula give
us some examples as to how the physical
environment in higher education the
university kind of has of the hidden
curriculum for its visit ideas well I
told you about the very structure of the
school is a space that you enter from
your private home through the streets
into the arena of the school but they
have senses around it they have doors
they have hallways that are monitored
and controlled etc so it's similar to a
factory where you're going into and
ordered a structured and ultimately a
hierarchical space if you walk into the
classroom and you submit for the
discipline of the teacher the teacher
stands in the front of the classroom you
sit in chairs the teacher is lecturing
to you you're a more passive recipient
of the teachers knowledge or wisdom etc
just like you go to work and you submit
to the organization of the workplace you
go through your little cubicle to your
desk through your workplace and you
submit to the authority of the boss the
foreman the social hierarchy there so
there's a similar structure a similar
space for the workspace and to the
classroom are there examples of business
well you have alternative schools some
of them see space is very important so
you sit around in a circle rather than
had a classroom situation you have more
of a dialogical situation there are
alternative pedagogy's that challenge
the hidden curricula that challenge the
structure of the classroom the structure
of social relations and hierarchy Paulo
Freire II for instance in his book the
pedagogy of the oppressed argues that
for alternative pedagogy
alternative social relations in the
classroom and this means alternative
spaces so as I said you have a more
dialogical situation where education is
a dialogue between students and teachers
it's less authoritarian students can
actually teach the teachers teachers can
learn from students which particularly
in a media culture a technological
culture makes perfect sense because
often teachers know more about media
they want know more about technologies
than the teachers so you can actually
learn from the students if you open
yourself up to non hierarchical
relationships and a different pedagogy
in a different way of teaching so I
think it's very important in talking
about hidden curricula in analyzing
critiquing uncovering the hidden
curriculum that is the dominant
curriculum but also talking about how we
can construct alternatives how we can
resist it how we can reconstruct
education how we can construct different
spaces different pedagogy's different
social relations and different curricula
how we can have a more democratic notion
of Education a more multicultural where
we bring in the cultural experiences of
groups of individuals that have been
left out of the dominant curricula
challenging the Canon bringing in
literature's for instance from blacks
reading black women like Toni Morrison
or Alice Walker or Sandra Cisneros so
or any number of writers that are often
left out of the mainstream curricula
taking seriously film television music
as alternative forms of Education today
the internet cyberspace bringing that
into the classroom and into education
challenging again the dominant
organization of curricula that is book
oriented that is teachers students
hierarchically structured as opposed to
a more interactive and dialogical
situation more about the illness of
professional annotations and that could
be us in the way that right well
teachers are as much if not more a
product of the hidden curriculum and
students students tend to resist this
hierarchical authoritarian conformist
boring structure of Education of the
classroom of the social relations
between teachers and students teachers
students often tune out of this because
they're bored they're oppressed etc
whereas the teachers are the enforces
the teachers are the ones that represent
the dominant social order and are
enforcing the hidden curricular they're
the enforces because they're our product
of the social system they've been
socialized to see education in these
terms where they have to draw up their
lesson plan how they have to follow the
textbook they have to follow a certain
social science or English literature
curriculum etc so they're often
conservative representatives of the
status quo because they themselves have
been socialized in higher education to
think that's what education is that
that's their social role that that's
their job and often teachers that resist
this are fired I mean I've had students
at the University of Texas that went
into schooling that tried to teach
different versions of American history
or social science we were fired for not
following the lesson plan the textbook
that was adopted in the school for
bringing in films or the internet or new
technology and trying to reconstruct
education and doing it different so
often teachers are one the product of
their own socialization and to
themselves subject to the discipline of
labor where if they don't fit into
whatever system they find themselves
working in are subject to the penalties
like getting fired or disciplined by
conservative school administration well
I'm a product of the 1960s in terms of
my politics I grew up in the 1950s and I
would socialize like everyone into
conservative middle-class American
politics and ideology but in the 1960s I
experienced all the movements of the era
starting with a student movement in the
anti-war movement that was very
anti-authoritarian where we questioned
everything so we started constructing
alternative education in the 1960s I was
going to graduate school studying
philosophy at Columbia University in
1965 when the student movement
originated in 1968 the students took
over Columbia University and made it
stop so we set up alternative classrooms
alternative education etc where we
decided what we wanted to read we sit
out in the grass at Columbia University
in a circle and discuss so I had models
of alternative education going back to
the nineteen
and also read books like Paulo Freire is
pedagogy of the oppressed that taught us
different relationships between students
and teachers so everyone's a product of
their own experience I just happened to
have the experience of the 1960's in the
1970s that made me critical of the
dominant system and made me seek out
alternatives to that system which I
experienced as a young person and I like
those so I've been trying to develop
alternative models of pedagogy critiques
of the hidden curriculum of the existing
social order the existing system of
education from that time forward
can you tell us a little bit about some
writing well it's very important for
teachers to see themselves as
intellectuals a lot of teachers just see
themselves as functionaries or
bureaucrats or they're just doing a job
but in point of fact teachers are
engaged in intellectual labor they
themselves are intellectuals reproducing
ideas and if they're good intellectuals
their critical intellectuals where
they're critical of the dominant ideas
in the society they're creative they try
to think for themselves they seek out
alternatives they seek enlighten the
truth they're constantly growing
developing they're trying to be good
intellectuals so it's very important I
think for teachers to see themselves as
intellectuals and to become critical
intellectuals but it's equally important
to see the relationship between
intellectuals and technology
so traditionally intellectuals were
writers were readers and they were
related to books in a very intimate way
schooling was founded on books the
curriculum was a print curriculum this
by the way is part of the hidden
curriculum of thinking that textbooks
are the vehicle of education that print
literacy reading and writing and
rithmetic
is the goal of Education well again
that's just reproducing the dominant
technology that was print technology
from the Renaissance up to the last
several decades
so that previously intellectuals were
experts at print technology they were
readers they were writers they were
teachers of the written word well we're
now in a media Society so it's very
important for teachers to see that
education is being radically and
dramatically transformed
by themselves in the classroom but one
by the media society by the fact that
since the end of World War two bits
starting earlier in the 20th century our
culture became a media culture this is
the title of one of my books 1995 route
which book called media culture and I
take this concept very very seriously we
are a media culture we're not a book
culture we're not a school culture we're
not a church culture we're not a family
culture we're a media culture where the
media is the center of our symbol system
of our culture
starting with film then radio comic
books magazines throughout the 20th
century but with television that becomes
the center of life and it is high point
television was watched eight hours a day
and this is almost impossible to imagine
that a cultural force television could
be so central to a culture we now have
computers and the internet and a variety
of media film music etc the point being
that intermedia culture media is the
dominant pedagogy Media is teaching
people how to see the world it's
teaching people role models values
social behavior it's giving people
education about life the economy the
social structure history etc
people are becoming socialized by a
media culture previously film television
music were the dominant forms of media
culture now cyber culture the internet
computers are becoming equally if not
more important so connecting this with
the intellectuals and with schooling
it's important to see that our students
our selves are being socialized and
educated by media culture and it's
important for educators to be able to
themselves construct a counter pedagogy
to become critical of the media culture
and what it's teaching and to present
alternatives
version but also to be able to use media
culture as a mode of education to use
videos to use class to use films to use
computers to use multimedia etc as
teaching tools so this requires teachers
as intellectuals to learn how to at
least use media and computers if not
themselves make videos make film produce
multimedia construct websites as modes
of education okay
educated by the media versus what we're
seeing now from any model where for half
an idealistic
version everybody
okay so the video will be edited right
now when we look at media culture we
look at the hidden curriculum we look at
schooling today it's important to see
the multiplicity of media that are
involved in our education in our
socialization and to be able to use all
of these media as tools of Education let
me try to spell this out a little bit as
I said earlier traditionally we were a
book culture print media and print
literacy were the heart of culture in
the heart of what education was all
about so developing literacy becoming
educated was learning to read and write
books print literacy then with film and
television suddenly at least the culture
as large was becoming socialized by the
media that television film popular music
the forms of media culture were have
more potent and more powerful
socializers than say book culture was
and most educators never got this we
went through decades of media culture
without most educators figuring out how
important media culture was in terms of
having its own curriculum and in terms
of presenting a challenge to education
to one be able to critique and analyze
media culture and then to being able to
use it positively in the classroom now
things are much more complicated today
because the media culture is being
transformed by a computer culture by an
info culture that as we have new
computer technologies there's new
cultural spaces the internet that are
even maybe more salient more important
in young people's lives then say film or
television on the other hand we're in
such a complex media culture that all of
this stuff is interacting so we still
have print culture we still
books we still have television and radio
and film and popular music but we also
have computer culture so this
complicates literacy and education
tremendously in fact in an ironic way
print literacy print media via the
internet are more important today than
they have been the last several decades
where the media culture was basically
visual media oriented and centric in
other words I would say film and
television and popular music that
himself is become a media spectacle
through MTV through Rock Dome through
rock concerts etc have been in other
words for the last several decades our
media culture tended to be a culture the
spectacle it tended to be multimedia it
tended to be visual and in an ironic way
with the internet print media has had to
come back in other words we do email we
read websites we spent more time
interacting with print media today then
I think the last generation did in media
culture so that we need in schooling
today to put more of an emphasis than
ever on print literacy on traditional
skills of reading and writing at the
same time that we have to develop new
literacies we have to develop media
literacy we have to become confident
literate in watching analyzing
criticizing film television music fiber
culture we have to become computer
literate in order to access the Internet
in order to interact with the new forms
of multimedia we need to gain new media
skills so this is a tremendous challenge
for education and I think very few
educators I really grasp I think young
people and students are more aware of
this than some of the older generation
that to be educated today to be media
confident today to be a player and the
culture and
economy you have to have a wide range of
skills ranging from print media literacy
and competency to media culture visual
culture like film and television
competency and literate to computer
literate that's why I argue that today
education requires multiple literacies
we need to gain print multimedia media
literacies it's a big challenge for
education well there's a big challenge
to traditional culture that started with
film and radio intensified with
television and is now even more dramatic
with computers and the Internet and that
is as you say fragmentary culture more
speeded up culture more visual culture
more multimedia and spectacular culture
that's a big challenge to traditional
culture that was either a print culture
I'm talking about high culture that
involved literature poetry book culture
or the ability to look at abstract
paintings to follow operas or plays or
other forms of traditional high culture
this form of culture is challenged and
has been challenged throughout the 20th
century by the new media by film it's
much more rapid much more visual much
more spectacular radio already begun
fragmentary culture where you had
15-minute radio programs that went from
ads to the descriptions by the
announcers to the soap opera or the
drama etc that was very very fragmentary
well the fragmentation was even
intensified more by television that was
also a more visual medium and people
that have analyzed the structure of
television see that
become faster and faster MTV is the
model of television culture that
involves very flashy image is very fast
editing very fragmentary forms of
culture and it's the same thing in the
internet in websites and multimedia etc
so the intention span of people
socialized in this culture becomes
smaller and smaller less and less
especially this is a challenge to
traditional high culture traditional
book culture two forms of complex media
like opera theater classical music
different forms of high culture that a
lot of young people have trouble
relating to because they are conditioned
to relate the variant pfaff very intense
and very visual multimedia culture so
it's simply a challenge for educators
for intellectuals to themselves be able
to train students to be able to
appreciate these other forms of culture
but also to more intelligently relate to
film television and the Internet and the
new ones of media and cyber culture it
seems to me and looking at contemporary
culture society education whatever you
look at you see both continuities but
also i would stress discontinuities with
the path so in one hand as I've been
arguing this fragmentation of culture
this development of multimedia this
pedagogy from media from the culture
from the environment has been
accelerating throughout the 20th century
I mentioned film radio television cyber
culture as successive developments of
new cultural forms that are a challenge
the previous culture so on one hand the
challenge to traditional education the
book culture to print media literacy has
been developing throughout the last
couple centuries on the other hand with
every new medium there is something new
film brought a new visual media media
and it brought editing radio brought in
a more fragmentary form of culture
television brought in a tremendous
involving fragmentary form of culture
that we've barely been able to figure
out potency a all embracive fascination
and seductiveness that was unparalleled
really and now computers and fiber
culture are bringing something yet new
something yet more fascinating and
seductive so there's differences with
each new medium with each new cultural
form they're difficult to figure out and
that are again a challenge to education
and to us
well computers are probably the most
revolutionary force of the 20th century
that are simply changing everything
they're changing work they're changing
media they're changing culture they're
changing education so that the
university is being radically and
dramatically restructured because of
computers whether they like it or not
television never in film never really
created much of a restructuring or a
remodeling of Education that eventually
video is brought into the classroom
first there was tremendous resistance to
bringing Paulo vision for instance into
the classroom with the normalization of
btrs where everyone had a VCR in their
classroom and a crystal in their home
and then eventually in their classroom
soon or eventually teachers brought
video film television into the classroom
where it became normalized but it really
didn't change education all that much
all right it was just used as something
supplemental and incidental to the work
of Education that was basically pedagogy
through books through classroom
interaction between students and
teachers whereas with the internet with
computers you really have a dramatic
restructuring of Education in terms of
research in terms of transmission of
ideas
in other words students themselves
interact through email through chat
rooms through interactive websites etc
so it's a very different relationship to
knowledge and information then book
learning on the other hand there is that
continuity of print media they're still
doing it through reading writing through
print media even though it's in the
broader field of computers on the other
hand the Internet is more multimedia so
they're accessing music graphics more
and more video film etc
Multimedia through the internet it's
going to change education even more so
already if you look at the library
they've been computerized if you look at
the web the internet it is the great
library right it used to be you went to
the library to get the great books to
get the journals etc you can now get
them through your home through the
internet so this is a dramatic on one
level restructuring of Education and
knowledge now it hasn't changed the
classroom and certain traditional forms
of pedagogy relationships between
students and teachers but I think it
will I think more and more teachers are
going to use website they're going to
use Lister's they're going to interact
with their students through the internet
which is by the way a more dialogical
form of Education it's not just
lecturing to the students in the
classroom but it's interacting with the
students on it through dialogue on the
internet click on the library click on
the library you actually don't actually
get this right right or when you you
know just if you log into the into the
into this web your aromatically being
targeted it tell you something right how
do you bring together the technology in
the market and trying to create a
critical understanding of what's
happening to you that is happening to
you it makes total sense it's a totally
important question and it's very complex
to analyze the relationship between
capitalism the market business
and technology and here's how I do it
first of all I would agree that part of
the hidden curriculum of the current
structure and organization of Education
is bringing the marketplace bringing a
core critias ation bringing business
into the University and into schooling
and it's often done through the vehicles
the medium of technology but not always
first of all schools are being seen and
organized more and more on a corporate
model they want to organize themselves
for efficiency they want to be more
productive they want they see
corporations is the most effective and
efficient organization of society and
they see the corporate model as the
model for schools secondly they see
Business Corporations being restructured
by technology all right they see the
writing on the wall that AOL and Time
Warner just engaged in the biggest
merger in history that we have an info
economy the business is being
revolutionized by the internet so
schooling should also get on the
bandwagon and be revolutionized through
the internet and technology now this is
something we need to be wary of
something we need to be critical of but
something that we can also take
advantage of in order to reconstruct
education so it's true there's a certain
corporatization of education through the
internet where a o L through Microsoft
where Microsoft where the information
technologies are entering into the
classroom most infamously channel one
uses the media uses video through
satellite television btrs and TVs to
bring advertising commercialization the
corporate agenda the structure of the
corporation into the classroom so this
one I think should be very critical of
on the other hand part of being critical
of it is developing critical media
literacy and
Jim students how to read and interpret
advertisement how to be critical of the
news and journalism to see the bias the
hidden agenda the curricula of at of
journalism and the news of media etc so
on one hand it's a colonizing force
corporation on the other hand it's an
opportunity to practice critical media
literacy to teach people student
teachers how to become critical of this
corporate agenda to be to expose the
hidden curricula that's seeping in to
the classroom but most important I think
it's important to use technology as
alternative modes of pedagogy and
education to take advantage of the
technological revolution to reconstruct
education this to me is the greatest
opportunity for educators for us to
restructure education that we've had
education has been a very conservative
institution because it's been
reproducing the same hierarchical social
relationships students and teachers in
the classroom it's been reproducing the
same conservative curriculum textbooks
lesson plans grading tests etc that have
been pretty much the same for the last
30 or 40 years there have been some
changes in the curricula as a result of
the movement for the 1960s that have
brought women's history african-american
history Chicano history Native American
history gay and lesbian history there is
in some expansion of the curricula
there's been some bringing in
alternative multi cultural voices etc so
the curricula hasn't been completely
conservative but it's been pretty much a
replication of the status quo through
education the internet information
technologies gives the opportunity one
to change social relations between
students and
teachers we're on listservs on email on
website is more interactive where the
students have more opportunities to
raise their own questions to articulate
their own voices to set up their own
website students can express their own
views their own cultural interest and
their own develop their own cultural
forms through the website they can put
up pictures they can put a video they
can write essays etc so this is really a
change in the structure of culture
that's more democratic it's more
interactive it's more multimedia so I
see the new technologies as a positive
opportunity to reconstruct education to
democratize education to create
multicultural education as well as a
danger that the corporations are going
to get more power they're going to
colonize and to modify education even
further so to me it's a contested
terrain it's a very volatile field that
can go either way
so to me there's openings and
possibilities with the new technologies
as well as dangers that it's just
another capitalist tool to colonize the
field of education just like
corporations are taken over the
political system they've taken over the
mainstream media we're Time Warner NBC
Microsoft AOL CBS General Electric the
biggest corporations control culture now
through controlling television films etc
they're trying to control the internet
they're trying to control education so
there is a corporatization of these new
technologies there's no question about
it but there's also democratic
possibilities in the new technologies
where we can use these to promote
alternative pedagogies alternative forms
of education alternative social
relations and alternative political
agendas
or anything of you want to have no
hidden curriculum it was a revolution in
journalism right
he almost overthrew a president that's
big there's a very important point I
want to make be savvy the internet and
that's how contradictory and ambiguous
is on one hand there's a lot of
corporate hype that the Internet is the
solution to all problems of society it's
going to create new jobs all kinds of
new economic opportunities it's going to
revolutionize education make information
education accessible to everyone it's
going to create all kinds of new
cultural forms and a great new culture
it's going to revolutionize every aspect
of life that's going to give us all
these great new products etc on one hand
I think we need to be very skeptical and
not to buy into this hype on the other
hand I think we need to seize the
possibilities and the potential that the
internet creates the new computer and
multimedia technology produced I think
we do need to see this as very important
and revolutionary that it's really
changing everything but there's a
corporate agenda that wants to solve all
social problems through the internet
from education to the economy and this
ain't going to happen so in terms of the
classroom and education it's not enough
just to bring technology into the
classroom computers aren't going to
solve the problems of Education the
problem of the digital divide is a very
real and serious one we need to make the
new technologies accessible to everyone
we need to make sure that the internet
the computer information technology
skills of media and computer literacy
are not just transmitted to the elite
computer culture began as a nerd culture
a white male elite culture in which the
decisions between existing class gender
race hierarchies we're going to be
threatened we're going to going to be
exacerbated made worse the difference
between the digital haves and the
digital have-nots were threatening to
reproduce the divisions between the
class gender race divides the previously
existed
so the Internet on one hand is
replicating the class and race and
gender divisions that were already there
and maybe even making them work on the
other hand there's the potential that on
your mind them that individuals that
didn't have great economic opportunities
that didn't have social or cultural
power that were left out of the cultural
and political game now have
opportunities through the internet
through computer and media literacy to
be players to get good jobs to make
their voices heard to be cultural
creators to be intellectuals to be
players and producers in the given
society so there are new opportunities
there dangers that the internet will
just replicate the previous class and
gender and race divisions between the
haves and have-nots but there's
opportunities to undermine them and
here's where schools come in it's very
very important for schooling to empower
people to give them the literacies the
competencies to be able to participate
in the information revolution and this
means teaching reading and writing
giving the kind of print media literacy
that's needed to be able to read and
write and thus participate in the new
cyber culture that has a very strong
print media component but also to be
able to involve themselves in the
Multimedia game to construct websites to
become computer literate to be able to
create sounds and images and being part
of the visual culture of the new
multimedia culture so it's a tremendous
challenge for education and I think it's
a opportunity for education to be
reconstructed we are having a
technological revolution things are
changing
it's a question whether we'll seize the
opportunity whether we'll use the
technologies possible whether we'll use
the technology positively as a force of
social change and social reconstruction
whether these will be instruments of
democratization or instruments of
corporatization and it's very important
for individuals and groups to resist the
corporate agenda to resist the Microsoft
AOL Time Warner agenda but to use the
new technologies to promote
democratization to promote overcoming
the digital divides and in an ironic way
to some extent this is being forced on
the corporation's if you listen to the
president of Time Warner who I saw on
television the other day after the AOL
Time Warner merger he was much more into
talking about democracy and overcoming
the digital divide than say the head of
the oil corporation or the tobacco
industry I mean these people the
previous industrial sector corporate
people these people were villains these
people were engaged in evil predatory
practices the military-industrial
complex etc there were few redeeming
qualities of this sector of corporate
capitalism Microsoft capitalism is a
softer capitalism it has to make more
concessions to democracy to
multiculturalism so we should push them
in this ways we should take seriously
their slogans about empowerment so yes
we want empowerment and we want groups
and individuals in power
have been left out we want a democratic
egalitarian society and if you're going
to have all this cultural power you're
going to have to share it with us etc
and I take these new sectors that
capital are more open the democracy than
the previous ones were so this requires
a lot of new thinking and new ideas in
order to respond in a democratic and
activist and productive way to the
revolution that's going on
I think it is happening one issue that
we haven't talked about in terms of
education the hidden curriculum new
technologies etc is the issue of
identity okay
previously identities were constructed
through family through church through
school through work etc there's always
been a biological component to identity
you're born white or black you're born
of a certain race or ethnicity you're
born male and female so there's certain
biological constraints on identity but
it used to be that through schooling and
again through family in church you
gained your identity through your
socialization and your social
interaction and the social roles you
play so you're a Catholic or a
Protestant you are a liberal or a
conservative you had a social role you
were a computer operator or you're a
factory worker you were a poet
etc that schooling basically trained
people for professions for certain
social roles your family trained you for
this schooling and and the rest of the
culture socialized people into certain
identities okay well this is changing in
cyber culture where until we have visual
culture and someday we're going to have
cameras by every computers so almost
everyone that is involved in a chatroom
or putting messages out in the Internet
you're going to see who they are or at
least there's going to be the
possibility of that so identity won't be
quite as mysterious as it is now but
we're in now in a very strange fluid
situation where the traditional
constructs of identity are not operative
in cyber culture this is simply a fact
we don't know that someone is man or
women black or white gay or straight
young or old
the traditional markers the visible
markers of identity have been erased in
cyberspace so this is a very strange
situation that most adults don't
that hasn't interacted in this culture
themselves that hasn't involved
themselves in moves and muds and chat
room that haven't involved themselves in
listservs and email discussions where
identity comes through you are what you
write or you are what you do in
cyberspace --is so you can really
construct different alternative
identities and identity is more fluid
it's more flexible it's more interactive
it's less determined that it is in
everyday life so this is simply a new
cultural space this is a whole new
phenomenon that does have I think
democratic possibilities it has creative
possibilities but it's also a sphere of
weirdness in which identity is simply
uncertain unstable and strange and
requires new concepts and new
understandings of how we construct our
very public identities and our persona
etc that again I think we haven't quite
figured out what to do with this there's
no question that the Internet is
creating new communities virtual
communities new public spheres new
spaces in which people can interact on
issues of public concern be it debates
about the internet itself be it
political debates be it the issues of
gender or sex or whatever all of these
issues are played out in new public
spaces in new communities on the
Internet and again we haven't figured
out what is the virtual community what
are the new public spaces are these real
or imaginary are they important or
unimportant this is simply a new
cultural space and there's whole big
debates about whether VL and virtual
life or RL in real life or really where
it's at
really important I see these domains as
overlapping and
interacting but in some ways is in
conflict as in conflict and
contradictory etc so just requiring a
whole new understanding of what is a
community what is the public space what
is democracy what is culture what is
education so I find the internet so
important because it's throwing in
question everything we previously
believed is throwing in question it's
undermining and subvert in the very
spaces of public interaction creating
new modes of interaction new cultural
forms that we need to try to understand
and then to make use of in a
constructive and democratic way let me
just say one last thing the final thing
that I want to say is that this
technical technological revolution
creates a tremendous challenge to
education to develop a critical pedagogy
that one uncovers the human the hidden
curriculum that critiques the way that
schooling is organized but tries to
present alternatives curricula
alternative pedagogy alternatives spaces
of Education alternative forms of
teaching and I think that the internet
and the new technology provides the
potential to reconstruct education it
provides the possibility for alternative
pedagogy
alternative cultural spaces like
websites and listservs alternatives
interaction but it's important to see
this as supplemental and not simply
replacing the classroom books schooling
it's a questioning of developing new
models of Education it draws on both the
new forms of pedagogy and cultural
spaces of the internet and cyber spaces
but also the classroom and the culture
and a more traditional form of culture
if we can bring these
together then I think we can really
reconstruct education but we need to do
so democratically we need to use
education as a tool as an instrument to
overcome the divides digital and real
between the dominant configurations of
gender race and class power to create a
more egalitarian society and culture in
which education and schools are part of
the Democratic reconstruction of
education and society John Dewey is
perhaps the great philosopher of 20th
century u.s. society and culture
because he saw the interconnection
between the reconstruction of Education
and society that you need to do both at
once you can't really change society
without changing education on the other
hand the democratization of education is
part and parcel of a democratization of
society if education is restructured in
accordance with the imperatives of
democracy and not just corporate
imperatives for-profit privatization and
the capitalist agenda so I'll stop with
that that's it that's it okay well a
very difficult Michel Apple